Potential updates/upgrades:

- Add link to GG351/Remote Sensing project
- Add page for personal cartography work, with a bit of writing about it
  - Maybe restructure page so that the home page is more of a general portfolio page and then links to a specific OpenSource page
- Add land acknowledgement/data disclaimer (talk to Jacob?)
  - link to other cartographers/cool people doing cool geography stuff
- Add profile picture to github page
- Add a 'mission statement' of sorts? Basically explain what motivates my academic interests, what excites me, why I am approaching GIS and CS the way I am, why I think that's valuable, etc
  - in short: I love the combination of algorithmic problem solving with the power/influence, responsibility, and beauty of geospatial analysis and problem solving. I am interested in writing code, developing software, and all the low-level intricacies of data storage, representation, and processing that come with that; but I feel compelled to direct that energy towards projects/work that have the capacity to improve the world and that can accomodate a connection to place for the producer (i.e. me) and the user. My connection to place is an important part of my identity and motivates my decisions in school (what projects I work on, etc) and out of school (working for RMC), and GIS related work feels like one of the only niches of software development that doesn't get disembodied from the idea of place by the incentive to make everything in the internet age universal. To be clear, I am not trying to say that I want all the GIS work I do to be related to places I have a connection to or that I expect GIS tools to be coded with particular places in mind. I am only saying that I feel that GIS related work - be it anything from software development to GIS consulting/analysis to cartography - allows for my sense of place to motivate my work in a way that other aspects/subdisciplines of CS don't, and that is something that is very valuable to me.


- Andrea Vaccari's computer architecture class had a huge influence on me - I might go so far as to say it single-handedly changed how I see the world. Not only did it inspire a love for and fascination with the low level details and sneaky tricks of engineering that make computers such powerful tools, but it set in motion a series of realizations/intellectual pursuits that I think have helped me broaden and complicate my view of the world and start to do better, more equitable science. It layed the groundwork for the shifts in perspective that Gender and the Body and OpenSource GIS would later cement, shifts away from unquestioned positivism and uncritical rejection of social scientific and humanist epistemologies. It taught me that the only real things in a computer are voltages - high resistance vs low resistence, conducting vs non conducting, open vs closed gates/circuits - and that everything else is a representational construct. We impart meaning on these complex webs of voltage and circuitry in order to make them useful, and the fact that our constructs are built upon/interwoven with math makes them consistent and therefore useful/reliable, but the usefulness of computers and digital data is ultimately determined by whether or not any two parties to their use (producer/user, sender/receiver, etc) have the same understanding of what the voltages mean. This may seem wacky or radical or out of touch, but I think we run into this idea on a regular basis whenever we are frustrated trying to open a weird proprietary file format or whenever our friends that use phones with a different OS can't see our emojis. These are trivial examples, but this concept has grave implications in a world where data tables, often poorly contextualized and semantically heterogeneous as Nadine Schuurman would argue, have the power to put people in jail, determine whether they can vote, or decide what land can be used for what purpose and by whom. All this is to say that sometimes, in some contexts (like with sex/gender as Prof. Essig would argue) science needs to be taken off its empirical, positivist pedestal and placed in its proper social and historical context, and doing so will make it better, kinder, more equitable, and more effective.
